---
layout: post
title: 28 things I know now that I'm 28
tags: personal
---

When I was 10 I thought I'd know everything when I turned 14. Then I turned 28, and realized how little I know. Here's what I know.

### Health
1. To **feel good** in less than 5 minutes, get moving. Do 100 pushups, crunches, or jumping jacks. These pick-me-ups are free!
2. To **avoid over-eating**, exercise lightly, do the dishes, or clean the bathroom right after eating. All three will incentivize not eating in the near future
3. Feeling stressed out or anxious? Journal your thoughts. Then write a to do list to feel in control
4. After reaching a certain standard of living, **happiness is a choice**. You choose what to do; some tasks are more fulfilling than others
5. To feel fulfilled [create more and consume less](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/modern-maturity-create-more-consume-less/), even when the creation is ugly
6. Only you can **save yourself**. [You are your own Prince Charming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bvrWaPPkYc)
7. Only you can **value yourself**, and you can *change to increase your value*

### Wealth
1. Money doesn't grow on trees, and not much in savings accounts
2. Beware of experts who pitch you on financial products. Do their incentives align with yours?
3. Instead of [buying shoes, buy buildings](https://nelygalan.com/nelyisms/) 
4. [According to the IRS, most millionaires have these seven income streams](https://dividendrealestate.com/7incomestreams/). What is your first income stream? Your second? ...
5. **Journal business ideas** and their next steps. It's a fun exercise and puts you in control.
6. To cut down on discretionary spending: keep your spending card away from your wallet/spending device
7. Figure out **how much money you need to live on** per year. Use that number to figure out [when you'll reach financial independence](https://playingwithfire.co/retirementcalculator/)

### Career
1. **You are not your career. You are not your job. You are not your title**. Career re-inventions are common, job changes can be forced, and titles removed
2. The relationships you build are more important than any **project** or deliverable. Use projects to build **relationships**, use the latter to build **sustained success**
3. Deliver on your word to get high. Then leverage that confidence to climb the next hill
4. Surround yourself with people you admire. At work and outside of work
5. The answer to develop additional skills, if can make time for it, is yes 
6. **Not all skills are equal**. Decide which ones to focus on.

### Productivity
1. Need to **tame work everyday**, otherwise it becomes intimidating
2. The first mark is the most difficult; doesn't have to be pretty, just put it in writing
3. **Know your limits** ie. if feel burned out after editing 3 blog posts per day, then editing 3 blog posts is a daily limit
4. Take breaks. The output matters, not the number of hours consumed
5. Learn your patterns: when do you work best? Certain hours have higher productivity. Work those hours
6. **Create momentum** by writing down a detailed to do list, then execute the list 
7. Be intentional with time. Instead of killing it, do activities to recharge 
8. **Watch your consumption**: you'll produce what you consume, so make sure it's good content on a topic you care about
